Garbage Collect old rendered MachineConfigs (#74675)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/machineconfig-garbage-collect-viewing.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machineconfig-garbage-collect-viewing_{context}"]
= Viewing rendered machine configs

> You can view a list of rendered machine configs by using the `oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs` command with the `--list` flag. For example, the command in the following procedure would list all rendered machine configs for the `worker` machine config pool:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view a list of rendered machine configs by using the `oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs` command with the `list` subcommand. For example, the command in the following procedure would list all rendered machine configs for the `worker` machine config pool:   
```

> You can view a list of rendered machine configs by using the `oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs` command with the `list` subcommand. For example, the command in the following procedure would list all rendered machine configs for the `worker` machine config pool:   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can view a list of rendered machine configs by using the `oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs` command with the `list` subcommand. 

The following example shows you how to list all rendered machine configs for the `worker` machine config pool.
```

.Procedure

> * List the rendered machine configs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* List the rendered machine configs by running the following command:
```

Author: I can never remember if we use _by running the following command_ or not!

Reviewer 2: afaik, for a procedure step that introduces a command we need to provide an explicit instruction to "run" or "enter" the command.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs list --in-use=false --pool-name=worker
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
worker
status: rendered-worker-ae115e2b5e6ae05e0e6e5d62c7d0dd81
spec: rendered-worker-ae115e2b5e6ae05e0e6e5d62c7d0dd81
----
+
--
where:

> list:: Displays a list of rendered machine configs in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--list`:: Displays a list of rendered machine configs in your cluster.
```

Reviewer: list is a subcommand and not a flag, so it does not need the '--' before it

Reviewer 2: oopsie!

> +

Reviewer 3: This is not the output that corresponds to the previous command `oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs list --in-use --pool-name=worker`

The output is:

```
$ oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs list --in-use --pool-name=worker
worker
status: rendered-worker-ae115e2b5e6ae05e0e6e5d62c7d0dd81
spec: rendered-worker-ae115e2b5e6ae05e0e6e5d62c7d0dd81

```

> list:: Optional: Displays a list of rendered machine configs assicated with the specified pool.

Reviewer 3: "assicated" looks like a typo.

> in-use:: Optional: Specifies whether to display only the used machine configs or all machine configs from the specified pool. If `true`, the output lists the rendered machine configs that are being used by a machine config pool. If `--in-use=false`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster. The default is `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in-use:: Optional: Specifies whether to display only the used machine configs or all machine configs from the specified pool. If you specify the value as `true`, the output lists the rendered machine configs that a machine config pool uses. If you specify the value as `false`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster. The default value is `false`.
```

> pool-name:: Optional: Specifies the machine config pool to display the machine configs from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--pool-name`:: Optional: Specifies the machine config pool from which to display the machine configs.
```

> in-use:: Optional: Specifies whether to display only the unused or all machine configs from the specified pool. It 'true`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster or the specified machine config pool that are being used by a machine config pool. If `false`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster or the specified machine config pool. The default is `true`.

Reviewer: The default is actually false. Minor typo before 'true' in this line:
```suggestion
in-use:: Optional: Specifies whether to display only the unused or all machine configs from the specified pool. If 'true`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster or the specified machine config pool that are being used by a machine config pool. If `false`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster or the specified machine config pool. The default is `false`.
```

> in-use:: Optional: Specifies whether to display only the unused or all machine configs from the specified pool. If 'true`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster or the specified machine config pool that are being used by a machine config pool. If `--in-use=false`, the output lists all rendered machine configs in the cluster or the specified machine config pool. The default is `false`.

Reviewer 3: Instead of 
```
Specifies whether to display only the unused or all machine
```

I think it is
```
Specifies whether to display only the used or all machine
```

Because when we provide the "--in-use" flag the command only lists the USED machineconfigs (not the unused), and when we do not provide it (or false) it lists all the images no matter if they are used or not.

--

> * List the rendered machine configs that can be automatically removed. The following command runs in dry-run mode, and no machine configs are removed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* List the rendered machine configs that you can remove automatically by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm prune renderedmachineconfigs --pool-name=worker
----

> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
The command runs in dry-run mode, and no machine configs are removed. 
```

Author: Moved ^^ closer to the command.

> * List the rendered machine configs that can be automatically removed:

Reviewer: May be a good idea to mention explicitly that we are running the command in dry-run mode here. We could also consider this example into the following "prune" section too; but I'm good with either.

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Dry run enabled - no modifications will be made. Add --confirm to remove rendered machine configs.
DRY RUN: Deleted rendered MachineConfig rendered-worker-23d7322831a57f02998e7e1600a0865f
DRY RUN: Deleted rendered MachineConfig rendered-worker-fc94397dc7c43808c7014683c208956e
DRY RUN: Skipping deletion of rendered MachineConfig rendered-worker-ad5a3cad36303c363cf458ab0524e7c0 as it's currently in use
----
+
--
where:

> pool-name:: Optional: Displays the machine configs in the specified machine config pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--pool-name`:: Optional: Displays the machine configs in the specified machine config pool.
```
